---
description: >-
  Anyone can copy features. For PumpOS, each decision on the features gotta be
  proven the best.
icon: star-christmas
---

# Features



<table data-view="cards"><thead><tr><th></th><th></th><th></th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><p>PumpOS</p><h2>SmartSearch</h2><p>The best way to search. PumpOS Smart search is a unique search with similarity algorithms. Embedded in the PumpOS search window, it can search a very large number of files and do repeat searches across the filesystem within fractions of milliseconds.</p></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><p>PumpOS</p><h2>pump.css</h2><p>The perfection of colors, spacing and injection. Packed with the PumpOS kernel, PumpOS Pump.css is available on all windows with a meta tag. During temporary theme changes, pump.css globalizes sizing and color data across the os, even in third party apps.</p></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><p>PumpOS</p><h2>Sleep mode</h2><p>Turn on with two clicks, add a message if necessary, and take rest. Sleep mode is the most minimal, calming and non-intrusive timer intended for quick naps, take rest for the good.</p></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><p>PumpOS</p><h2>Focus mode</h2><p>Turn on from settings, helps you focus on work and not be distracted by the wallpaper. Blurs the wallpaper if you enter a focused app activity and deblurs it when you are out of it - automatically.</p></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><p>PumpOS Settings</p><h2>Data manager</h2><p>Edit and manage locally stored data by PumpOS and third-party apps ran on it. Assuring control over the most powerful of apps across the domain and over the system itself. Available on the settings app.</p></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><p>PumpOS</p><h2>Dynamic glance</h2><p>A glance window in the Pump Nav for everything you need, search apps, see notifications and get a list of your recent apps - a window dynamically created for your needs every time you need it.</p></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><p>PumpOS Default apps</p><h2>MusicPLR</h2><p>A ready to go local music player with queue, shuffle, track metadata extraction, music visualization, volume and seek controls together with stunning UI and no ads, free of cost and works offline - right on your PumpOS as a default app.</p></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><p>PumpOS Default apps</p><h2>Media player</h2><p>Load long video files and play them without worrying about its length*. PumpOS Media app chunk loads segments of video files, streaming - made easy.<br><br>*File size matters.</p></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><p>PumpOS</p><h2>Offline mode</h2><p>Imagine a full web os, working fully offline, without any need for internet. Switch accounts, make and run apps like normal but just that there's no internet. PumpOS can do just that with the offline mode.</p></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><p>PumpOS Settings</p><h2>Battery remarks</h2><p>Open the battery settings to see a quick, short suggestion about what to do with your battery. A remark crafted by the battery data you requested, precisely, without AI.</p></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td><p>PumpOS Default apps</p><h2>Pump Browser</h2><p>Imagine a website, where you can browse the internet like a breeze. Yes, a browser, fully on a webpage, fully client side. With features like proxies to avoid CORS and features like multiple tabs and history.</p></td><td></td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>
